I still believe over the next five plus
years stocks will deliver an equity risk
premium due to increased productivity
in particular due to AI.
>> Hi everyone, I'm Gunjen Banerjee
>> and I'm Telus Deeos. Welcome to another
episode of WSJ's Take on the Week and
this week we're talking about the
market. I know we always are talking
about the market but like we're really
talking about the market this week
because it's it's really reached a fever
pitch. The question being, are we in a
speculative bubble? We had a really
interesting uh statistic uh the other
day, which is that margin debt, right,
which is basically what people are
borrowing in brokerages uh to to to
place bets on the market to buy stocks
and other securities and that
>> to like turbocharge their bets, right?
They really want to like magnify their
exposure to the markets.
>> You borrow money so that you can buy
more. And that debt hit an all-time high
of over a trillion dollars uh for the
first time according to uh statistics
from FINRA which which tracks this. And
that's really a sign that investors are
are are really quite bullish.
>> To your point about margin debt though,
you know, that really is seen as a sign
of exuberance out there to a lot of
investors. And it's not the only one.
You know, take a look at Robin Hood
earnings. That has become just the
poster child of speculation out there.
>> Yeah, they were a blowout, right? I
mean, they were
>> a total blowout. I mean, their stock has
surged this year and their recent
earnings showed that trading in equities
and options hit all-time highs. So,
surpassing anything that we've seen the
past few years, which is pretty
remarkable.
>> Yeah. So, for Robin Hood, that means
above the levels they were back during
the 2021 meme stock mania, right?
>> Yeah. I mean, just like the share of
individuals, as we've talked about
before, the share of individuals and
things like options is above levels seen
during the GameStop mania. I was looking
at some other data. We think of, you
know, these periods of exuberance as
associated with like this rush into
bullish bets and call options volumes,
you know, trades that typically profit
when when stocks go up, they have been
elevated, but they've been particularly
extreme in volatile and unprofitable
stocks.
>> Well, there's one report coming up next
week that I think from from from the
point of view you were talking about,
Gunj, the real like kind of speculative
fervor type thing, and that's a company
called Palunteer. Palanteer stock has
surged more than 100% this year and it
has just exploded over the past 12
months and a lot of investors
interestingly still kind of consider it
a meme stock because because it has this
really avid retail following. For
example, some of these investors call
its eccentric leader Daddy Karp. But now
I think showing the power of of these
investors, it's now one of the largest
companies in the US and its earnings are
due in the next few days. Well, I think
that's going to be super interesting to
watch. And that's why I'm really excited
about that. We had this week with
Sebastian Paige who is the head of
global multi-asset at Troll Price, also
the chief investment officer there.
T-roll price obviously a giant global
asset manager. Look, I know we've we've
highlighted a bunch of frothy sounding
things right now, but there are a number
of things that people look at, you know,
to to say whether or not the market is
truly in a speculative bubble. and and
we we went through a lot of these with
with Sebastian and you know not all of
them were necessarily pointing towards
bubble right
>> a lot of the companies that are powering
the market higher are actually making a
lot of money they have a ton of profits
think about these giant tech companies
and we saw that over the past week
>> well we got into all that and a lot more
with Sebastian Paige including all the
signs yes and no are we in a speculative
bubble and we're going to have that
conversation after the break
>> so tell us I I feel like we're hearing
the bubble word a lot recently.
>> Yeah, the journal's coverage of the
market is getting pretty fizzy lately.
Seen some things looking at what's
happening in meme stocks.
>> Meme stocks are back.
>> Crypto and just like the valuations of
the stock market. People are asking the
question.
>> It's starting to feel a little crazy.
And Sebastian, I'm I'm curious what you
think. Do you think that we are in a
bubble right now?
>> Well, good. We're starting with a strong
question right here. We just talked
about the B-word bubble in our asset
allocation committee. If you look
historically when you've had such market
concentration, it usually preceded
bubbles. However, to me, the
fundamentals are there. We're talking
about an index that's concentrated but
concentrated in companies with awesome
margins, awesome profits, cash flow
generation. So,
>> tech companies, the the technology
behemoths, right? how Nvidia is a huge
percentage of the S&P 500, right?
>> And makes gobs and gobs of money. Yes.
>> People like to use the word froth. You
know, that is a sign that we might be in
the runup.
>> And then you get into the scarier ones.
>> The Goldman Sachs speculative trading
index is at an all-time high. Okay,
>> they look at trading volume in
high-risk,
low quality
stocks in meme stocks and they just look
at the trading intensity in those types
of securities. I think you know the one
that worries us the most is the
performance of high-risisk lowquality
stocks last quarter relative to high
quality stocks. We're talking about
ranges of like 10 to 20% outperformance
from low uh quality, high beta, high
risk stocks. That is also bubbish.
>> So, just to play devil's advocate a
little bit, I feel like I've been
hearing about market concentration for
years and stocks have kept going up. I I
feel like I've been hearing about high
valuations for years. Stocks have kept
going up. Well, and just to point out,
you mentioned the the Goldman Sachs,
that speculative index. Our colleague
Spencer Jacob the other day mentioned it
in his column, and he said that
>> the part two of that thought is that
that usually precedes outperformance of,
you know, above average S&P 500 returns
over the next three, six, and 12 months,
right? We read the same statistic. But
so, you know, it that could be a reason
to buy, not a reason to sell.
So ultimately we're neutral between
stocks and bonds and our asset
allocation committee right now. We see
these signs, but I completely agree with
you. Like we talk about high valuations
as if it's a short-term signal of
impending market doom. It's not. And the
best way to convince yourself that we
have to live in a higher valuation
world,
>> look at the net profit margin chart on
the S&P 500 for the last 30 years. It's
near an all-time high and it's been
trending up consistently. And I'll play
devil's advocate with you. The
fundamentals are actually pretty good.
Growth expectations for GDP cratered
following the tariffs headlines. I think
they overreacted in terms of e economics
projections and they're probably due to
stabilize and normalize back up. And
then you have fiscal spending. We
believe the big beautiful bill is
stimulative. Yes, we're renewing certain
tax cuts, but at the same time, we're
lowering, not eliminating fully, but
lowering taxes on tips, social security,
and overtime, and we're allowing 100%
depreciation of capex, which encourages
companies to invest because they can
depreciate all those investments. So
bottom line on that would be just that
you know companies are permanently more
profitable if corporate taxes come down.
But let's but let's ask about the other
big thing going on the economy which is
which is tariffs obviously. Does that
count if if companies are which it seems
like so far they have been absorbing
some of the tariffs keeping it out of
the inflation data to an extent.
>> Is that going to counteract that
profitability? I mean, I know tariffs
are kind of a one-time event, but if
they stick around for several years, is
that a reason you might want to like
take a couple of points off of the
market's valuation just a because of the
profit impact and b just the uncertainty
of what that will will mean? Shouldn't
people be cautious right now because of
that?
>> You know, tell us, I'll give you a
nuanced answer. Tariffs matter for
economic growth, but they don't drive
the entire economy of the US. And I
think you had Goulsby uh also Goulby say
that on your podcast recently.
>> Yeah. You know,
>> he was more optimistic I think than than
you might have expected it to be.
>> Yeah.
>> So it's not the entire economy. In fact,
services consumption is 45% of GDP and
it drives 70% 70 of GDP growth. So the
market is starting to behave that way as
if you know tariffs no longer the entire
outcome for S&P earnings and for the
economy. They certainly drive a lot of
headlines and I don't want to minimize
them and it will be inflationary in one
way or the other. Maybe shorter term,
maybe a little bit longer term as well.
Our economists are concluding tariffs
will be inflationary. We just had a 15%
tariff on all goods imported from
Europe. You saw it in the last print. By
the way, if you look at all the
categories that jumped by4% month over
month or more, these are all things you
buy on, you know, cheap things you buy
on Amazon like garments or not so cheap,
but like appliances or small toys or
things that you get shipped from oversee
and you click and it's cheap. A lot of
these categories went up by 1% month
over month. So, you're starting to see
the impact of the tariffs. So what are
the key things you're watching right now
if tariffs are not the entire picture
>> from a positive perspective?
Fed fund rates coming down with earnings
going up and all those positive
fundamentals like fiscal spending, like
the stabilization of the tariff
discussion, the consumer strength.
And if you think of consumers and
spending, retail sales are expected to
grow about 4% year-over-year. That
matters a lot, especially on services.
Unemployment is quite low at an
aggregate level. And then consumer
balance sheets are quite good. Net worth
is at an all-time high and debt service
ratio is in the bottom 20% of its
historical range. I just want to take a
pause on that for
>> tell us as the pro on on this corner.
>> I just wrote about this and a discern
about that is that that is absolutely
true. The consumer's in a great place.
So if you serve up a rate cut to those
consumers, you know, I I know you said
nothing's going to pop right now, but
aren't you sort of pumping more air into
the bubble with that rate cut? At least
from the consumer's point of view,
>> you know, in theory, yes. But to play
the contrarian once again, I don't think
a couple I don't think a couple rate
cuts matter that much. In fact, we just
had like a 100 basis points of cuts and
the 10-year yield went up, not down, up
by 100 basis points. So, I don't think
the Fed drives the entire economy with
these zero, one, or two cuts.
>> Clearly not based on where we are right
now, right? And and how the economy has
held up. And as you pointed out,
Sebastian, the market has rallied
through the hike the the the you know,
it rallied towards the end of the hiking
cycle and and and has, you know, sort of
not seem to view the Fed rates as as a
constraint, right? I I mean look talis
so the sensitivity of the economy to 50
basis points of cuts over the next 6 to
12 months is probably greatly
exaggerated a little bit like the tariff
discussion like the entire economy moves
with tariffs and the long end matters
much if not more than the fed funds. So
if the curve steepens and the 10-year
yield goes up, that is actually
restrictive.
>> Okay. So I want to focus on something a
bubble factor that that you didn't talk
about and that's the equity risk
premium. The equity risk premium is
basically the yield you expect from
stocks versus the yield you would get on
bonds. And so because of that rising
10-year Treasury yield and because
stocks have gone gotten so much more
expensive, those two things are way more
equal than they normally are. And for a
lot of people, that's the sign of a
potential bubble that you should be paid
a lot more to own stocks effectively
than you should bonds. Stocks have risk
that bonds don't. So what does it mean
to you to see that? And what should
investors be thinking about the stock
versus bond parts of their portfolio?
>> You're right, Telus. It's almost the
same. And you know what the cool thing
about bonds? The returns are quite
predictable for bonds, especially if you
take a four, five, sixyear horizon. The
yield is a very good predictor of the
actual return you'll experience. It's
much easier to forecast bond returns
than stocks returns. Stocks, it's a
question. I still believe over the next
five plus years stocks will deliver an
equity risk premium due to increased
productivity
in particular due to AI. It's no joke. I
talk to our analysts our portfolio
managers. We love to research technology
at TIPrice. It's one of our areas of
expertise. They all say the same thing
and I haven't heard that for all new
technology trends. They all say it's
real and we're starting to see it in our
own lives. If you start using some of
the top tools and pushing them a little
bit, you can see in action the
productivity that we'll get. So there's
earnings power still high margins and I
do think that over time you'll continue
to get a risk premium for stocks. Yeah,
maybe it'll be a bit more compressed
than historically. Now I don't think
that was your question. Tell us. I think
you were more asking is it a is it a
signal of a bubble, right? Is it sort of
a short-term negative signal?
>> Well, one one way for them to come into
balance is for stocks to sell off,
right?
>> Yes. And it also explains why there's so
much cash that hasn't been deployed, 7
trillion in money markets and checking
account. If you can get the four and a
half% on a short-term government bond
fund, it's kind of, you know, very low
risk. So it's hard to convince yourself
to move it to the stock market. So it
speaks to the fact that bonds are a much
better alternative to stocks. But over
time, there's a reason why you should
get an equity risk premium. And if you
want your wealth to compound and you
have a long time horizon and you're
willing to accept short-term losses, in
my view, you should have a healthy
allocation to stocks. So if you're a
retirement investor, stick with your
stocks is what you're saying.
>> So Sebastian, you recently wrote this
book, The Psychology of Leadership, and
have talked a lot about what investors
can learn from sports psychology and it
seems like right now this group of
stocks in the market kind of has a hot
hand. How do you navigate that? I think
sports psychology is greatly underrated
in general for self-improvement, but in
particular for investing because if you
think about athletes, they have to deal
with a lot of uncertainty. They can
prepare as much as they can, but they
can face bad weather, a ref. That's not
fair. They can't control what their
opponents are going to get. So those
that are processoriented in sports
psychology, it's demonstrated that
they're able to differentiate between
luck and skill. And we're just talking
about speculation. When there's a lot of
speculation, investors forget to
differentiate between luck and skill. I
I can make a really bad decision. I
could go out to dinner and drink too
much wine and drive and if I get home
safely,
it's a good outcome. but it was a
horrible decision
or if I use Uber but Uber gets in a
crash, it's a bad outcome but it was a
very good decision. So the mindset of
separating outcomes uh from the quality
of the decisions you make is really
difficult but really important for
investors. That's why I'm glad you asked
the question Gujan because probably
maybe in our audience now there's a lot
of people making a lot of money right
now in markets but think about whether
it's luck or skill
>> given all of the speculation right now.
How are you positioning?
>> So we are in a nutshell neutral between
stocks and bonds because I talked about
signs that we might be in the run-up to
a bubble but I also talked about very
strong fundamentals stronger than most
people think. So we like to sit at
neutral. We're long diversification.
So the portfolio is less concentrated.
For example, we have an overweight
position to international value and
small caps. And we are short duration,
meaning we have less interest rate
sensitivity. We have less treasuries,
long treasuries in the portfolio than we
would normally have. neutral stocks and
bonds, long diversification for example
international and short duration. We
have a view and it's not just tariffs
that there are upside risks to
inflation. Whether it's the pace at
which wages are growing, a housing
shortage in the country, the risk that
commodities could pop any time, add to
that tariffs, there are some upside
risks. Add to that deficits which can
put upward pressure on the 10-year and
you get the picture for why we're
underweight duration. We have more cash
in our bond portfolio than long bonds
and we also have more credit than long
treasury bonds.
>> So to the point you were making about
process versus outcome. Is that a
portfolio that might sometimes kind of
not feel like it's working because your
returns are lagging the market, but you
should stick with it because it's got
like a sound process. I'm just wondering
is that is that the way that you need to
approach a market like this? Like stick
with my process even though the outcome
kind of looks ugly.
>> Well, the outcome is has been great. If
you've owned the index and you've owned
bonds, you've done great.
>> But what I'm saying is if you're not
like max growth, right? Like let's say
you've got a portfolio that's a mix of
like growth and value or you've got some
international stocks and I know we've
talked a lot about you know people
rebalancing away from the US but thus
far that trade has not been great right
like
>> it's crushed it this year international
stocks are have outpaced US by the
biggest margin in like a decade
>> well but if you look at the EU kind of
the reaction to the trade deal you know
it was kind of negative and the US
market the the valuation is much higher.
So anyway, my point is just that like
are there times when you're going to
have good process, bad outcome
sort of results in your portfolio by not
just sort of maxing everything out? When
do you stick with process and not look
at the outcome as an investor?
>> Tell us two things. First of all, I love
the debate right now. I'd love to have
both of you in our asset allocation
committee because those are the types of
debates we're having about process but
also about markets. Second, you have to
look at outcomes over longer periods of
time and you have to think about whether
you have a small edge that you can apply
to a lot of different decisions over
many time periods.
Do you remember when Roger Federer, it's
about a year and a half ago, went
completely viral on social media from
his commencement speech to a group of
students. Does that ring a bell?
>> And he tells his students, I have played
1500 matches in my career and I have won
80% of the matches.
But then he said, guess the percentage
of points that I have won. And it's
remarkable because it's only 54%. So,
one of the top tennis players of all
time lost close to half the points, but
he had a small edge that he could apply
very consistently that led to strong
outcomes over time. Unless and until
you're willing to separate luck from
skill and accept losing, sports
psychology is about losing and what you
do with the loss, not about winning.
Unless and until you develop that
mindset, it's going to be very difficult
to stick to your process in markets.
>> Well, uh, losing not something people
have done a lot of in the markets
lately. Maybe they need a little to
teach them some discipline. All right.
Well, we're going to take a quick break
and when we come back, we're going to
have one last question for Sebastian
Page.
>> When you are looking for value in the
market right now, where where are you
looking?
We like international value as an
example. If you look at the European
banking system, you have positive
interest rates. You're out of the zero
interest rate period and you have an
environment that is stimulative for
growth with increased spending. We think
German GDP debt to GDP could increase by
20% over the next 10 years. Defense
spending, infrastructure. So we like
those financials, industrials as well in
European value sectors and that's a
position that has done well year to date
but is still quite cheaply valued if you
just do a relative value. Now I just
need to add a caveat. This is a tactical
trade. We like it for 6 to 12 months.
I'm not talking about the end of US
exceptionalism. I'm not talking about
the fact that the US mega cap tech
companies are are are actually awesome
companies with huge earning power and we
own some of them. But tactically, we
like that trade of uh international
value.
>> Well, just in this room, we've had a
debate about what's going on in the
market. I'm sure the audience has a ton
of their own views which they should
feel free to express in comments and
emails and reach out and let us know. Uh
but we're going to have to end it for
here. Sebastian, uh it's been great.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you, Sebastian.
>> Likewise. Thank you.
[Music]
>> Is there a speculative mania underway?
>> Is there a speculative mania? What other
kind of mania are there? Is there Is
there a less speculative kind of mania?
>> It's a It's a mania rooted in the
fundamentals. I've never heard of that
one.
[Music]